Jerome Powell is not happy about this in
fact what we're seeing today is the
worst possible circumstance when it
comes to inflation and when it comes to
interest rates you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you in
today's video I'm going to break down
exactly what's going on and then show
you what this means to you because
seeing some statistics just doesn't
really matter if you don't know how that
relates to you as an individual so we're
going to break that all down right here
I'm not going to get into the jargon I'm
going to get into what it means for you
okay that's the important part GDP
growth slowed to a 1.6% rate in the
first quarter well below expectations
that's economic growth that's the
economy and of course if they're not
getting the growth that they intended
where does this leave us where does it
leave us after you've printed trillions
of dollars you've pumped it in and
you've devalued that currency so much
and all you can get is 1.6% and it's so
manipulated to begin with you know
you've got a problem the expectation was
2.4% and they didn't hit that and of
course as a result the markets went down
now we'll see how long that lasts
because the markets are really high on
that hopium the personal consumption
expenditures price index that's a key
inflation variable for the FED Rose at a
3.4% annualized pace that's the biggest
gain in a year what what does that mean
that's the
pce index and what do we have well
basically that's the way that they
measure inflation so they're measuring
inflation at
3.4% which we know you and I know it's
much higher but we're looking at their
metric and it's at the fastest Pace
right now in a year so according to them
according to the FED inflation is
increasing so of course that's concern
for Powell for the fomc for the Federal
Reserve who were all just a couple
months ago were talking about Cuts every
Cuts Cuts Cuts every article was talking
about Cuts all of the fund managers were
talking about Cuts every website was
talking about this and the stock market
went up as a result and there was a
grand disparity my finance Friday crew
you know what we're talking about here
between the stock market and the
reserves and I said something's got to
give either deserves will increase
tremendously or the stock market you
know it's going to struggle to go much
higher at this point it doesn't
necessarily crash but these two the
reserves and the stock market they can't
get out of whack if you are confused
with what I'm talking about here just
search the money GPS money mirror method
and you'll find the video about that but
basically what I'm saying here is that
these things got out of whack and now we
have a reason for it to come back down
to reality it shouldn't be a surprise to
anyone consumer spending increased 2.5%
so initially you might say okay there's
an increase there people are still
spending more but that's down from
3.3% in the fourth quarter and it's
below wall Street's estimate of
3% at the same time on top of that we're
talking about inflation that has gone up
considerably so it's not as if people
are buying like all the cool new stuff
it's just stuff is more expensive and
even in that way people are just they're
holding back on purchases you've seen it
I've seen it you've been talking to
people I talk to people everywhere about
cost um and like literally all over the
world I talk to people about this I go
into stores I start talking to the
people about it uh just uh individuals
business owners everyone that I can I
ask them about this I want to know that
information D directly from you from
those people right I don't just see it
the stats you like I'm showing you these
stats but really this is just the prop
because I've been talking to so many
people for all all these years and I've
been adding that to my internal database
okay so just make sure that when you
watch these videos you realize this is
really just one piece of the total you
know information that I bring to you
okay um this is just showing us that the
data may not not be as bad as it looks a
surge in portfolio management costs
which go up with the S&P 500 accounted
for the full upside surprise in core
inflation that's something I wanted to
note here because you're going to see
that's stuff getting pushed out all over
the place but I want to make it clear
okay when we talk about that you know
that's still inflation it's still
considered to be part of the index
they're still going to be looking at
that but let's know the context of it so
that I show you that here of course the
average you know website YouTube or
whatever they're not going to tell you
that I want to make sure that you have
the truth not just what gives you the
clicks and all that BS us yields sore as
Traders see the FED fed delaying the
first cut to December and now we're not
even talking about June and July anymore
we're talking about
December uhoh so what's going to happen
here oh well that becomes the issue
because if they're not going to cut
until December that means that rate has
to stay at this level for this period of
time uh-oh at the same time China's pile
of treasuries also fell in February to
775 billion this is a monthly decline of
$22 billion and they are still the
number two right Japan Number One China
number
two but they have been slowly but surely
selling off their treasuries since I
think 2013 but then it went down then it
went up and all that um but just you if
you look at if you zoom out and you look
at this for over a decade they've been
getting they were peaked out at like 1.3
1.4 and then it starts coming down and
down and down and so we know that they
are less likely to hold us debt and more
likely to hold gold so that shows us
like how can the US uh keep up what it's
doing if China is not going to be that
biggest buyer they have to have other
countries buying it up and certainly
that is happening other countries want
us debt but it needs to come with an
attractive interest rate associated with
it the higher that rate is the more
difficult it is for the US to pay it
back so you've got to watch out what
happens with these rates hey it keeps
the dollar strong so for somebody okay
making us dollar living outside of the
US that's very that's very good but at
the same time it it's you know it's it's
a fluctuating thing because eventually
that makes its way like a strong dollar
hurts Canada it hurts other countries as
a result because everything is priced in
US dollars so of course that's a
concern you could see this here
Thursday's report suggests inflation
using the fed's preferred gauge was
likely firmer than expected that gives
investors another reason to give up on
the idea that the FED could begin
slashing interest rates in the coming
months typically an underwhelming growth
figure would boost hopes that the FED
will lower interest rates but continued
price pressures complicated that Outlook
and so you'll see that on the chart
right here GDP change from the previous
quarter and uh very weak overall the
last time we saw it this week it was
2022 okay so that's not a good sign
considering they've been pushing so hard
pumping all that cash in it's not just
the United States you could see Canada's
inflation rate ticks up to 2.9% in March
amid higher gas prices boosting June
rate cut
bets well you'll see looking at this we
don't know we don't know what's going to
happen but they certainly want to pursue
a higher level of interest rate they
don't want to do it too much to actually
resolve the issue they want to stretch
it out they want to prolong it if they
wanted to Canada US anywhere else to
actually fix the problem you have to
create a period of deflation you have to
increase interest rates
dramatically yes that hurts the economy
short term but guess what everything's
fine thereafter or at least it's better
off thereafter the longer you stretch it
on for come on you're you're not getting
getting anywhere long term by doing that
but that's the way you know your
political class likes to do things and
of course this way you can always take
more from the middle class right that's
the point you want to take from the
middle class because you have to make
sure that the maximum amount of people
are
subservient stripe co-founder says that
high interest rates flushed out silicon
Valley's wackiest ideas
so he said broadly speaking the effects
of the higher rates have been quite good
you know during in Silicon Valley anyway
so they're not necessarily worried about
the higher interest rates and saying
yeah when you had zero interest rates
that's crazy that creates
malinvestment and that is something that
doesn't benefit everybody as a whole
remember the nfts not just the nfts that
they exist and if the fact that they
exist is good sure great but when were
saying that you know you want to have
that house besides Snoop Dog I remember
the Articles written about it you want
the house besides Snoop Dog in the
digital world because this is the
Fantastic thing you don't have a choice
to get that in the real world no you can
get in the digital world and now you
have that it's so fantastic it's amazing
all these celebrities were buying
pictures of monkeys and stuff and saying
that this is going to be worth way more
down the road this is just completely
out of this world that's 0% interest
rates this is the growth that we are
seeing G7 and the bricks um obviously
when you look at it I mean you can see
where the growth is okay it's in the
bricks Nations however just keep in mind
that of course developed economies don't
have the growth of developing economies
emerging economies that's obvious okay
we know that they also generally have
lower inflation rates so keep that in
mind
but we know where the growth is going to
come from that's what you got to
understand here like if you're expecting
dramatic growth coming out of Europe
you're not going to find it you're not
going to find it there so there's like
the wheels are turning slower so when
you're investing just keep that in mind
and understand where things are there's
a much slower Trend inside of the West
and of course the emerging uh economies
are going to see that growth they are
going to be the ones that do the a lot
of the
consumption right they're going to be
consuming more energy things like oil
they're going to be doing things more
more often they have to build more there
and and so as a result there's going to
be more investment happening there more
opportunities happening there doesn't
mean that there's nothing happening in
in other countries but you got to
understand the way that is okay so I'm
just trying to bring you a very
levelheaded explanation of what's
happening today inside the economy it's
looking like the potential for no rate
Cuts could that be it because just a few
months ago everybody was talking cuts
and now suddenly a big change all right
if you want to know more information
about the financial system you're like
what's this guy talking about I have a
free 100% free financial education
course that doesn't even require your
email not even your email you go on
there it's called Compass the money
gps.com
compass and when you get to the compass
page you just watch the videos and
that's it there's no sign up there's no
payall nothing like that the money
gps.com you just click on that Compass
button and don't forget to hit that
thumbs up button here to support the
channel that's what I ask of you just
simply a thumbs up I want to say thank
you for being here today and I'll see
you tomorrow take care